- [Instructor] Let's take a look at some of the common
docker compose options that people would like to use,
or, as a developer, that would be very helpful to you.
The first thing we want to look at is -p option.
Now what that means is by default,
when you start an application in a directory,
it uses that directory as a context.
And when it creates a service, it uses that directory name
as part of the generated service name.
Using -p, you can create
multiple isolated environments on a host.
So if you want to start the project again and again,
you can specify -p and a different context,
and those services are essentially
created in that name space.
That'll make it really easy for you.
We'll take a look at a sample in a few minutes.
Another option that is available in docker compose
is for override.
Now, as we looked earlier,
there is a docker-compose.yml file.
And that YAML file has a definition of all the services.
But, if you want, you can have
a docker-compose.override.yml file.
And in that file, you can give a definition
that will override the ones that is defined
in docker-compose.yml.
And once again, we'll take a look at the sample here.
The services defined in docker-compose.override.yml
either replaces or extends the value,
and we'll take a look at that.
Single-value options like image
that could only have a single value
will replace the old value.
Multiple value options like ports are either concatenated,
or newer values will take precedence over the values
that are specified in docker-compose.yml.
So let's take a look at what can we do with this here.
In my terminal, I'm into the chapter3 director, helloweb.
That's what we created earlier.
Now, by default, if I were to start this application,
I will just say docker-compose up -d.
Now, if we were to do that, before that,
let's take a look at our docker-compose.yml.
All it does is just looks at this deployments directors,
mounts it to the WildFly deployment directory,
and starts WildFly on port 8080 on the host,
mapping it to 8080 in the container.
Now, if I do docker-compose
up -d here.
Let's try it again.
The directory name is helloweb,
so the service name is helloweb_web,
web being the service name here,
and 1 being the single instance of the service,
which is okay.
Now, I can bring the service down very easily,
docker-compose down.
And once again, stops the container, removes the container,
and then removes the network as well.
Let's take a look at my -p option now.
So here, I can say docker-compose up -p.
Actually, this is a docker compose option,
not up option
that'll say -p my app
up -d.
Okay.
Now you'll see the network that is created is
myapp_default,
and the service that is created is myapp_web_1.
So, let's take a look at if I want to see the services.
Docker-compose, and I will say ps
to show me the list of services.
Wow, it does not show any services.
Well, why so?
Because remember, the default context is the directory name,
so we're still trying to find those services,
network, et cetera, in that context.
If you want to taka a look at the services,
then you need to specify the context as well.
Now, it shows me the services correctly.
And similarly, if you want to shutdown the service,
you go to specify the context using -p,
and it shuts down the services very easily for you.
Okay.
So, that's sort of the first example
of how you can use -p option.
More real life example would be is
let's say you have a Git Repository,
you got multiple branches,
you can fire up test environment using -p,
and take the branch name here.
So for each feature branch in your Git,
you can easily set up a docker compose application,
run it, test it, and shut down the application.
And in between, you may run the test,
or whatever you want to do.
That's the typically use case for it.
Let's take a look at how will we use override next.
So, I'm going to refer back to the exercise files.
Here's a file that I'm going to use.
So let me copy this file first.
In this directory, once again,
I'm in the helloweb directory.
I'm going to create docker-compose.override.yml,
and I'm going to paste the content here.
So, what are we doing here?
Well, first thing is a web service.
So we are using the exact same name
as it was used in the original service.
So that means we are overriding a service.
The second thing is we are mapping.
Instead of port 8080,
we are mapping port 80 on the host here.
And because container has port 80,
in this case, it'll replace the port
that is from the parent service.
So, let's save the file here.
Take a look at the listing.
I got docker-compose-yml
and docker-compose.override.yml.
Now I can say docker-compose up -d.
Before we do that, if you remember, in the previous case,
our port 8080 on the host was mapped
to port 8080 on the container.
Now, if I do docker-compose up -d with the override file,
let's take a look what happens.
My services are created correctly.
And if I say docker-compose ps,
now port 80 on the host
is mapped to port 80 on the container.
I also have an option to change the image,
whatever I want to do with this.
Now this is again a very classical use case
where in docker-compose.override.yml,
I may want to have a different image
depending upon the circumstances.
I may want to run a test image,
or I may want to run a production image,
or I may want to run an image specifically configured
for extra logging.
So there are lots of ways
by which you could use docker-compose.override.yml.
So let's take a look now that the service
is running on port 80,
what impact does that have on our application essentially.
So if you remember, we had a deployments directory.
Okay, so let's take a look at the deployments directory.
In that directory, we already have webapp.war file.
And webapp.war.deployed
is a WildFly convention
saying that the application is deployed as well.
Let's verify that.
I can say logs -f.
And in my WildFly logs,
it does say that the webapp.war file
was successfully deployed.
If I stop it here,
now I can access my application,
localhost.
And instead of saying 8080,
because now I'm accessing port 80 on the host,
I don't need to specify the port number.
So now I can directly say webapp,
resources,
persons.
And there you go,
my application is not accessible on port 80,
so that is pretty cool.
If you're using Docker Toolbox,
then, once again, local host will not work for you.
Make sure you're using the Docker Machine IP address
to access this URL.
Let's clean up our application.
So we are going to
docker-compose down,
shut down our application.
So it stops the container, removes the containers,
and remove the network as well.
So in this section, we saw how we can create
multiple projects from a single docker compose application.
That is particularly useful
let's say if you have a Git project,
And for each branch, you may want to run the test,
so you can use -p branch name right there,
and then spin up multiple projects
without conflicting with each other.
And remember, each project has its own network as well,
so it's a network isolation part of it too.
And then last but not the least,
we looked at how docker-compose.override.yml works,
which allows you to override
the definitions or extend the definition
that are defined in the usual docker-compose.yml file.